README.md, before:

# osh-vpn
[![Build project](https://github.com/hoot-w00t/osh-vpn/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/hoot-w00t/osh-vpn/actions/workflows/build.yml) [![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/hoot-w00t/osh-vpn)](https://github.com/hoot-w00t/osh-vpn/blob/main/LICENSE)

Osh is an experimental mesh VPN made as a fun and learning project.

Although it has basic authentication and encryption it was not tested much and I'm no expert in those fields, so if you are looking for a reliable and safe VPN, don't use Osh.

## Building the project
### Dependencies
[OpenSSL](https://www.openssl.org/) is used for cryptography and [easyconf](https://github.com/hoot-w00t/easyconf/) to handle configuration files.

[easyconf](https://github.com/hoot-w00t/easyconf/) is a submodule of this repository and will be built automatically when building Osh.

#### Debian/Ubuntu
```
sudo apt install make git gcc pkg-config libssl-dev cmake
```

#### Arch Linux
```
sudo pacman -S --needed make git gcc pkgconf openssl cmake
```

#### Cygwin
```
make git gcc-core pkgconf libssl-devel cmake
```

### Compiling
Clone the repository and navigate to it, then run
```
git submodule update --init
mkdir build && cd build
cmake ..
make
```

### Build types
You can use different build types with `-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=<build_type>` when running CMake
| Build type     | Description                                                                                  |
|----------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Debug          | Disables compiler optimizations and enables more debug information (default)                 |
| Release        | Enables compiler optimizations (level 2)                                                     |
| MinSizeRel     | Enables compiler optimizations for smaller file sizes                                        |
| RelWithDebInfo | Same as Release but also enables default debug information                                   |
| NativeRelease  | Same as Release with optimizations specific to the host CPU                                  |
| Hardened       | Same as RelWithDebInfo but also enables stack protection (https://wiki.debian.org/Hardening) |

### Unit tests
You can also build unit tests by configuring CMake with `-DENABLE_UNIT_TESTS=ON`.
They are built using [Criterion](https://github.com/Snaipe/Criterion), which you'll have to install in order to compile and execute the tests.
```
cmake .. -DENABLE_UNIT_TESTS=ON
make
ctest
```
It's also possible to run the unit tests alone with `./oshd_tests`.

## Installing
It is possible to install Osh with `sudo make install` after compiling.

You can change the installation prefix to install files to another location by configuring the project with `-DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=<path>` (defaults to `/usr/local` on Unix and `C:\Program Files` on Windows).

After installing you should find an `install_manifest.txt` in your build directory, which contains a list of all the files that were installed to your system.

Commit message:

Add epoll support
Refactored the AIO to support different poll mechanisms.
epoll will be used by default if it is available

This code will likely change again in the future (both for native
Windows support and to improve its quality)

README.md, after:

# osh-vpn
[![Build project](https://github.com/hoot-w00t/osh-vpn/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/hoot-w00t/osh-vpn/actions/workflows/build.yml) [![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/hoot-w00t/osh-vpn)](https://github.com/hoot-w00t/osh-vpn/blob/main/LICENSE)

Osh is an experimental mesh VPN made as a fun and learning project.

Although it has basic authentication and encryption it was not tested much and I'm no expert in those fields, so if you are looking for a reliable and safe VPN, don't use Osh.

## Building the project
### Dependencies
[OpenSSL](https://www.openssl.org/) is used for cryptography and [easyconf](https://github.com/hoot-w00t/easyconf/) to handle configuration files.

[easyconf](https://github.com/hoot-w00t/easyconf/) is a submodule of this repository and will be built automatically when building Osh.

#### Debian/Ubuntu
```
sudo apt install make git gcc pkg-config libssl-dev cmake
```

#### Arch Linux
```
sudo pacman -S --needed make git gcc pkgconf openssl cmake
```

#### Cygwin
```
make git gcc-core pkgconf libssl-devel cmake
```

### Compiling
Clone the repository and navigate to it, then run
```
git submodule update --init
mkdir build && cd build
cmake ..
make
```

### Build types
You can use different build types with `-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=<build_type>` when running CMake
| Build type     | Description                                                                                  |
|----------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Debug          | Disables compiler optimizations and enables more debug information (default)                 |
| Release        | Enables compiler optimizations (level 2)                                                     |
| MinSizeRel     | Enables compiler optimizations for smaller file sizes                                        |
| RelWithDebInfo | Same as Release but also enables default debug information                                   |
| NativeRelease  | Same as Release with optimizations specific to the host CPU                                  |
| Hardened       | Same as RelWithDebInfo but also enables stack protection (https://wiki.debian.org/Hardening) |

### Unit tests
You can also build unit tests by configuring CMake with `-DENABLE_UNIT_TESTS=ON`.
They are built using [Criterion](https://github.com/Snaipe/Criterion), which you'll have to install in order to compile and execute the tests.
```
cmake .. -DENABLE_UNIT_TESTS=ON
make
ctest
```
It's also possible to run the unit tests alone with `./oshd_tests`.

### Other compilation options
#### Disabling epoll
`epoll` will be used instead of `poll` when it is available, but you can disable it if you want by configuring the build with `-DDISABLE_EPOLL=ON`.

## Installing
It is possible to install Osh with `sudo make install` after compiling.

You can change the installation prefix to install files to another location by configuring the project with `-DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=<path>` (defaults to `/usr/local` on Unix and `C:\Program Files` on Windows).

After installing you should find an `install_manifest.txt` in your build directory, which contains a list of all the files that were installed to your system.
